In the previous video, we already create topology
like this.
We will use this topology to learn about network
automation using netmiko.
Now in this video, we are going to learn about
netmiko.
What is netmiko, and how we can install netmiko.
You can try to open the netmiko documentation
in github.com, this is the url,
Or you can go to google and try to search
netmiko github like this.
And then you can open the first website.
Okay now let’s start learn about netmiko.
Netmiko is a multi vendor library to simplify
paramiko ssh connection to network devices.
So the function of netmiko is same as paramiko,
which is doing ssh to networking devices.
But netmiko is more simple than paramiko.
And netmiko is build based on paramiko.
Here we can see supported platform, this is
means the vendors that supported by netmiko.
The supported platform is divided to 3 category,
which is regular tested, limited testing,
and experimental.
To check the detail, we can click here in
the platforms.
Okay this is the vendor that regulary tested.
We have arista, cisco devices, hp, juniper,
linux, and others.
And this is vendor that limited tested.
Here we have many vendor, including mikrotik
is also limited tested.
And then this is the vendor that experimental,
we also have many vendor here, including Fortinet
is also experimental.
Okay so we have many vendor that supported
by netmiko.
Next, let’s see how we can install netmiko.
This is the command to install netmiko.
Very simple right?
We just need to type pip install netmiko.
And here we can see some requirement for netmiko,
so when we install netmiko, this package will
installed automatically.
Okay let’s just install netmiko on ubuntu
server, let’s make sure that netmiko is
not installed yet, pip3 freeze, here we can
see that netmiko is not installed yet.
So if we try to import netmiko on python,
we should get an error, let’s try it.
Go to python interpreter.
And then let’s try to import netmiko.
Okay here we get an error,
Exit, and then let’s try to install netmiko,
pip3 install netmiko.
Wait for a minute, okay done,
Let’s check again, pip3 freeze, here we
can see that now we have netmiko.
Let’s try to import on python interpreter.
Go to python interpreter, and then import
netmiko.
Okay now we don’t have an error anymore.
This is means that netmiko is installed correctly
on our server.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to start learn how to
do network automation using netmiko.
Thank you for watching and see you on the
next video.